we tend to approach political problems
as pre-fabricated
slabs of information given to us
by already existing political
organizations parties and traditions
it's interesting how that narrows down
the human mind where you can't even
think clearly
about something as obvious of the fact
that every day
you walk past drug addicts on the street
that probably the single question you
need to resolve most of all to improve
quality of life
in los angeles or vancouver is the drug
drug addiction epidemic that problem
and what we might need to do to solve it
that really might be much more
revolutionary than we'd like to admit to
ourselves
what we're living through right now in
is sort of the bizarre victory of
marxism
in that marxism completely transformed
the way people think about
um the organization of society and
inequality
and in my opinion sincerely marx himself
was wrong
and more broadly marxism created popular
misconceptions about society
that are wrong so you know you're
talking about the relationship between
the upper class
well let's just simplify the extremely
rich and the extremely poor
i talk to people all the time
university-educated people who have the
delusion that our government today
has a parasitic relationship to the
poorest of the poor
that the government like in the united
states canada western europe the
government gets
rich by oppressing and exploiting
the poorest of the poor now
mathematically
this is completely false mathematically
the government exists the government is
rich today
because it exploits the richest of the
rich
the taxes that build the roads that
you know make trains run on the train
tracks that provide you with electricity
and running water
and schools all of the things the
government does
those are paid for by rich people now
once you understand that many other
aspects of 21st century and neoliberal
governments start to make sense
like the way in which many first world
countries are competing
to try to attract and retain wealthy
people as residents
because multi-millionaires they could go
and live in barbados
they could go live in the turks and
caicos islands they could go live in the
mediterranean italy they can choose to
live
anywhere in the world so for the the
government of canada to try to compete
and say no no no we want you to have
your primary home
here in canada we want you to pay taxes
here in canada
this is you know it's surreal but this
is the reality of governance in the 21st
century
that the the parasitic or exploitative
relationship is in fact between
government
and the richest of the rich
[Music]
and the poorest of the poor not only
does government not thrive on oppressing
them
they're a net loss for government
government is taxing the rich
and then genuinely uh redistributing
that money to the poor providing
benefits
like health care education and just
money uh to poor people and all these in
all these ways
so as simple as that sounds
that's already a huge hurdle to get over
in 2020
now where does that vaguely marxist
delusion comes from it comes from what
karl marx and engels had to say about
the french revolution basically
you know the image we get of the french
revolution uh again
sort of a mainstream uh marxist frankly
but you know mainstream uh retelling of
the fable of the french revolution
was that the king and the aristocrats
were rich
because they exploited the poor like the
as if the poverty of the poor
created the riches of the ruling class
and that therefore this sets up the
marxist fable of communist revolution
therefore the way to progress was for
the poor to rise up and tear down the
aristocrats and presumably
distribute these these ridges among
themselves so
presenting the aristocrats as a
parasitic social class
as if they accomplish nothing as if
their money comes from
looting and pillaging uh the poor which
is again it's just kind of
mathematically untrue i mean like really
think about that so there's a man in a
castle
who has a bunch of horses and he goes
down into a village and steals
from the poor people that's how he gets
rich really are you sure about that
you know the reality of what was going
on in the whole century
leading up to the french revolution is
that aristocrats were the people opening
factories
aristocrats were the people pushing
forward scientific progress
including at that time the inventions of
the first computers
no i did not misspeak and yes i've seen
these these devices in museums i haven't
just read about them in books
computers reckoning machines as they're
often called
that were made on having metal cylinders
that would spin and click into place
to compute large sums that included the
government computing taxes by the way
how much money you can imagine you get
to numbers in the millions it's very
difficult to do that math on paper
so the development of reckoning machines
and you can the history of any one of
these machines
it's always going to be the baron of a
certain place or the vi count there are
all these people with aristocratic
titles who came together and put their
money together
and employed a scientist and employed
some craftsmen and metal workers
to make this computer breakthroughs in
the sciences
breakthroughs in industry you know
really positive progress
was being accomplished by aristocrats
and again if you even just read
philosophy from this time many of the
philosophers who are complaining that
the poor are oppressed and downtrodden
are themselves aristocrats they're
aristocrats who are you know
put it this way to say that the
aristocrats were human beings like you
and i
it's really an understatement because in
their society
they were the only people who had an
education equivalent to
what you and i may take for granted and
large parts of society were
illiterate were incapable of doing math
we're incapable of knowing things that
again today we we presume even the
poorest of the poor
will know we start with this notion of
aristocrats
that really does come from karl marx and
engels
writing their assessment of what
happened in french society
and then to some extent they don't do a
very good job
of trying to transpose this pattern onto
german and
british society but they have their
fable of what happened with the french
revolution
and then amazingly because marxism is a
failed ideology in some ways
the triumph marxism is that it's kind of
hypnotized our whole culture
into thinking this way about about
social class uh to this day
and um you know even people who are rich
themselves i've found this so many times
it's very strange what a kind of
self-hatred they have
um that they feel they have to apologize
for being a bank manager and so on that
they can't see something
heroic or positive or noble in being
born rich and having those advantages
and doing something positive with them
saying hey i have extraordinary
opportunities you know and
it may be unfair that i've got them but
hey just step back and now look what i
can do with it if you if you give me a
chance
you know that instead you have this kind
of very strange
self-hating deceptive concealing ruling
class
you have a class of millionaires who
want to pretend they're middle class
basically so that they can shirk the
responsibilities of being aristocrats
and they may indeed be uh be the
aristocrats of our time
i don't know if you have more you want
to say on this but i got i got
completely non-french revolution related
questions
so i'm happy i'm about to move on to
your next question i think the other
the other thing is to really try to be
honest with yourself about what it is
you want in politics
um what is trying to achieve and what it
is you're complaining about or what it
is you're against
and it's it's very easy to sign up for
the political program presented to you
by a
a party or a faction whether it's left
wing or right wing
and not to go through those not to go
through those steps
what is wrong with life in los angeles
california
to take an example i think anyone who's
really really honest with themselves
would have to admit
that you know drug addiction is one of
the largest problems in los angeles
perhaps you feel this way about
vancouver perhaps not and that
the nature of the problem and the nature
of the solution it doesn't fit into any
of these
simple ideological categories like it's
not you know
the problem with drug addiction isn't
that the working class
is being oppressed by the aristocrats or
that it's it's also not
giant corporations or this kind of
stereotype discourse like there are a
lot of hackneyed political discourses
um and also of course i don't believe
some kind of right-wing fable that the
reason why people are drug addicts is
because they've turned away from jesus
or you know lost their faith in god or
something if you're just
really being honest with yourself about
what is the problem
like maybe part of my problem is i have
a daughter
and my daughter can't play in the park
because there are drug addicts there
you know lying out sometimes literally
dying we had a dead body in our park a
couple
a couple weeks ago guy died of a drug
overdose right in front of us obviously
this is only one
example but it's so obvious
and we seem to be so incapable of
dealing with it i think because we tend
to approach political problems
as pre-fabricated slabs of information
given to us by already existing
political organizations parties and
traditions it's interesting how that
narrows down the human mind where you
can't even think clearly
about something as obvious of the fact
that every day
you walk past drug addicts on the street
that probably the single question you
need to resolve most of all to improve
quality of life
in los angeles or vancouver is is the
drug drug addiction epidemic
that problem and what we might need to
do to solve it
that really might be much more
revolutionary
than we'd like to admit to ourselves i
know what to do
but there's a difference between knowing
what to do and being desperate enough to
actually do it and it's very painful to
be that desperate